rescmpv5

by Tetsuji Maverick Rai and Josef W. Segur

usage
rescmpv5 {result.sah 1} {result.sah 2} [Qnn.n]

compare two result.sah files and check they are within validation limits.
It determines these two results are
1. strongly similar (all the signals are similar)
2. weakly similar (at least half the signals (and at least one) from each 
   result are roughly equal to a signal from the other result
3. different
                                        
The optional Qnn.n third argument specifies the maximum Q value at which
the table of signal types is shown for strongly similar results. The
numerical part of the argument is evaluated as a double float and is
ignored if outside the 0 through 100 range.
  Q0 would suppress the table
  Q100 would show the table for all results
  Q99 is the default


This is a modified version of Tetsuji's rescmp.

The code is derived from the SETI@home v7 validator code. A "Strongly similar"
outcome requires that each signal be matched within these tolerances:

Common to all types:

signal type:  equal
ra:           .01 degrees (.00066 hours)
decl:         .01 degrees
time:         1 sec
freq:         .01 Hz
chirp_rate:   .01 Hz/sec
fft_len:      equal

Gaussian and best_gaussian:

peak_power:   1%
mean_power:   1%
sigma:        1%
chi_sqr:      1%

Pulse and best_pulse:

mean_power:   1%
period:       1%
snr:          1%
thresh:       1%

Triplet and best_triplet:

period:       1%

Autocorr and best_autocorr:

delay:        1%



There is a Q value presented which indicates how closely important values
in the two results match. Q is 100.0% if all the values are identical, but
reduces toward zero as the worst difference found in a matched pair of
signals approaches one of the signal matching tolerances above. In addition,
peak_power contributes to Q for all signal types using a tolerance of 1%.

For the "Strongly similar" case, Q is shown thus:

Result      : Strongly similar,  Q= 99.98%

For "Weakly similar" or "Different" cases Q is shown thus:

For R1:R2 matched signals only, Q= 97.00%
Result      : Weakly similar.

If there are no matches the line for Q is not shown, but results are very
seldom that much "Different".

Because the values are double floats the difference can potentially be huge,
so if a difference exceeds it's tolerance, Q= ???? is used. That indicates
a questionable outcome which should be investigated further. For comparisons
of results produced by the same system, probably anything less than 90% also
suggests further investigation. Comparisons of results from systems of
different architecture may give lower Q percentages.

For the "Weakly similar" and "Different" cases, and for the "Strongly similar"
case if the Q value is less than or equal to a threshold, rescmpv5 provides
counts of the number of signals of each type which compared "Exact", "Super",
"Tight", "Good", and "Bad". The "Good" and "Bad" counts correspond to those
which met or didn't meet the above tolerances, so are the basis of the Validator
decision. "Tight" uses comparison tolerances generally 1/10 of those standards
so indicates signals which would individually have Q of 90% or higher. "Super"
uses comparison tolerances generally 1/100 of those standards so indicates
signals which would individually have Q of 99% or higher. "Exact" means no
discernable difference. For "Strongly similar" cases when the table is shown,
differences between the "Exact", "Super", "Tight", and "Good" counts indicate
what type of signal caused the reduced Q value.

The table is built by a procedure which first tries to find a match for each
signal in the first result.sah by looking through all the signals in the second
result.sah. The counts from that are below the R1:R2 heading. Then the procedure
is reversed, checking each signal in the second result.sah for a match within the 
first. Those counts are headed R2:R1.

The table normally shows 10 signal types:

        Spike
     Autocorr
     Gaussian
        Pulse
      Triplet
   Best Spike
Best Autocorr
Best Gaussian
   Best Pulse
 Best Triplet

However, rescmpv5 does not show the "Autocorr" and "Best Autocorr" lines when
neither file being compared has any. That's simply meant to make the table more
sensible when S@H Enhanced results are being compared, although it will also
happen on S@H v7 results with result_overflow if no Autocorrs were found before
the early exit.

The threshold for displaying the table with "Strongly similar" results is used
at full double precision before the Q value is rounded to 4 digits for display.
The default 99 threshold means that a calculated Q of 99.00000000000000 or less
will have the table, but higher values which also round to 99.00 will not.

When the result files are parsed, the line numbers corresponding to the opening
tag for each signal are saved. If a match for a signal is not found, rescmpv5
lists its line number after the table, making it easier to find the problem
signal in the file.


Josef W. Segur  15 February 2012

